---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - Introduction to Open Source
---


### Thoughts on Open Source
When I hear the term "open source," I think of collaboration, transparency and innovation. Open source software allows anyone to view, modify and distribute the code, creating a friendly environment which encourages both developers and users to contribute to the evolution of projects. Having such idea, open source software motivates a change from proprietary control to community-driven development, where improvements can come from everywhere throughout the internet.

<!--more-->

### Advantages of Open vs. Closed Source
Compared to closed-source software, the biggest advantage of open-source software is its transparency—it is free to use and open for anyone to view, modify, and improve. This allows a global community of developers to quickly identify and fix problems, including security issues. Additionally, because open-source software is built on an "open" platform, users can customize it to meet their specific needs. On the other hand, closed-source software is owned and controlled by a company, meaning only the company can make changes. While it often provides better support and regular security updates, users must pay a high price and rely entirely on the company for improvements. Therefore, open-source software is an excellent choice for those who value flexibility and cost savings.

### Potential Problems with Open Source
While transparency brings many benefits to open-source software, it also comes with challenges. Since the code is publicly available online, hackers can study it to identify vulnerabilities. This may leads to potential security risks. Although the open-source community can work to fix these issues quickly, some projects lack dedicated security teams, making them more vulnerable to attacks. Additionally, open-source software often relies on volunteers, meaning support and updates may be inconsistent compared to closed-source alternatives that offer dedicated customer service. Another challenge is fragmentation, which means different versions (forks) of the same project can create compatibility issues. Lastly, long-term sustainability is a concern, as many open-source projects depend on unpaid contributors, which can slow development or lead to project abandonment. Despite these challenges, open-source software remains valuable due to its flexibility, transparency, and community-driven innovation.


### Why I registered for a class on Open Source Software Development?
Open source software plays a crucial role  in modern technology. As someone pursuing a career in software and business analytics, I want to understand the mechanics of contributing to open source, collaborating with developers worldwide, and leveraging open source tools in real-world applications.

### Four open source projects that influenced me
Python is the first open-source project that comes up my mind when I think of "open source".This project makes coding much easier for me with its simple syntax and powerful libraries. I also rely on Wikipedia almost daily for quick research, and I appreciate how anyone can contribute to making knowledge accessible. Additional, Linux introduced me to open-source operating systems, showing me the benefits of customization and flexibility. Lastly, Android (AOSP) has shaped how I view mobile technology, proving that open-source software can drive innovation and accessibility.

