---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Project Evaluations
---

### What are your thoughts about different projects that you have looked at so far?
This week, our group looked at the Pygame project, a game development tool that uses C and Python. We found it beginner-friendly because it has clear instructions for contributing and simple Python code that is easy to change. However, the main contributors haven't reviewed any pull requests since November 2024, which makes the project inactive and not a good choice to contribute to. 
After reading other groups' evaluations on different projects, I learned that many projects are either no longer active or require advanced programming skills. For example, the PyTorch project needs CUDA and machine learning knowledge, which is too advanced for me. Similarly, while the VScode project has clear instructions and I am familiar with it, there are no issues labeled as beginner-friendly. 
Therefore, evaluation shows that it can be hard to find a project that is both active and welcoming for beginners. 

<!--more-->

### What are you most excited about regarding working on an open source project?
What excites me most about open source is the freedom it offers to express ideas, share suggestions, and modify code in a predominantly anonymous online environment. This can reduce the reliance on face-to-face communication. This unique setup not only levels the playing field but also invites individuals from every background to engage and contribute. With comprehensive documentation readily available, anyone intrigued by a project can quickly get involved and make a meaningful impact, fostering an inclusive and dynamic community where innovation thrives.

### What do you think will be the biggest challenges? How do you plan to overcome them?
One of the biggest challenges I've observed in open source is that many active GitHub projects are not particularly beginner-friendly. They often demand an advanced programming background and an in-depth understanding of complex codebases, which can be daunting for newcomers. Meanwhile, projects that require less technical expertise tend to be less active and may not offer the robust community support that makes open source contributions rewarding. Additionally, these projects frequently lack clear contributor guidelines and designated beginner-friendly issues, making it hard to find a smooth entry point. To overcome these hurdles, I plan to invest time in expanding my technical skills, actively seek mentorship within the community, and advocate for improved documentation and onboarding practices to create a more accessible and supportive environment for future contributors.